Welcome back.
It's time to set up our environment to work with typescript.
Now as with anything that I mention in this course I do recommend you check out their documentation.
They have really really good information of why you can do why you can use.
And if we go back to what it says we've now learned what this statement below means typescript is a
typed superset of javascript that compiles to plain Javascript.
So let's download it and we could click here.
But for me we're developers Let's use a terminal
Let's make this a little bit bigger for you.
In order for us to work with typescript we have to make sure that we have a node installed and I'll
leave resources for you to install node after this video.
But a good way to check if you have node available on your computer is to do dash the I have a point
9.1 and you can follow along and make sure as long as your version of node is higher than this all the
code should work.
Now why do we need node to work with typescript.
Well if you remember in our diagram typescript has this little machine this compiler that compiles our
code to javascript and this compiler needs to run somewhere and this compiler again has to have an environment.
And that's what we use for.
For being able to run javascript because it has the javascript engine that is the V-8 engine that actually
comes from Chrome to actually read our javascript and understand it.
So let's download this compiler.
All we need to do is run NPM install dash G for global.
That means that we can use the typescript command now in our terminal and just type typescript and based
on your permission writes You might have to run this with sudo.
So that is giving it permission to install where you might have to type in your password and then you'll
get typed script downloaded on your machine.
Perfect.
Nice and simple.
Now we're able to run typescript from our terminal and the way we do that is do ts see for typescript
compiler.
If I press enter here let's make this a little bit bigger.
You see that it gives us all the information we need.
I have version 2.0 1.3 and it tells us how we can work with this compiler.
So now that we have the compiler installed we can start writing typescript put it through this compiler
and this compiler is going to spit out javascript and through that method we're able to add static typing
to javascript something that javascript doesn't have naturally and its definition.
All right.
So go ahead and get this set up on your machine.
I'll leave resources for you to follow along.
So that for the next upcoming videos you're typing along with me and testing out your type Skipp compiler
works.
And that we're writing typescript together.
I'll see in the next video by.